docs(tutorial): cronjobs MTA-1579 (#218)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/automate-tasks-using-cron/index.mdx

---

> title: Automate tasks on Ubuntu 20.04 using Cronjobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Automating tasks on Ubuntu 20.04 using Cronjobs
```

> description: This page shows you how to configure Arq to backup a PC or Mac automatically on Object Storage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: This page shows you how to configure Arq to automatically back up a PC or Mac on Object Storage
```

> description: This page shows you how to configure Arq to automatically back up a PC or Mac on Object Storage

Reviewer: this description is from a different tuto

> description: This page shows you how to configure Arq to automatically back up a PC or Mac on Object Storage

Author: ```suggestion
description: This page shows you how to automate tasks on Ubuntu 20.04 using Cronjobs
```

categories:
  - compute
  - instances
  - bare-metal
tags: cron cronjob crontab cronfile automate automation ubuntu
dates:
  validation: 2021-11-09
  posted: 2019-11-09
---

> [Cron](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/focal/en/man8/cron.8.html) is daemon to execute scheduled commands on Unix-like operation systems, including Ubuntu Linux 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Cron](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/focal/en/man8/cron.8.html) is daemon to execute scheduled commands on Unix-like operating systems, including Ubuntu Linux 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa). 
```

> The commands to be executed are stored in a table. This table is called Crontab, the tasks executed by the Cron daemon are called Cronjobs. Crojobs are executed automatically, making cron useful for automating maintenance-related tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The commands to be executed are stored in a table. This table is called Crontab, while the tasks executed by the Cron daemon are called Cronjobs. Crojobs are executed automatically, making cron useful for automating maintenance-related tasks.
```

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key)
- You have [created an Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/) which is running Ubuntu Focal Fossa (20.04).
- You have sudo privileges or access to the root user.

</Message>

## Installing Cron

> Cron is part of the Ubuntu opertating system and on most Ubuntu installations preinstalled. However, if your machine requrires Cron to be installed, you can do so using the apt package manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cron is part of the Ubuntu operating system and is preinstalled on most Ubuntu distributions. However, you can manually install Cron using the apt package manager if necessary.
```

1. Make sure your apt package index is updated:
    ```
    apt update
    ```

2. Install Cron using the apt package manager:
    ```
    apt install cron
    ```

> 3. Make sure the service enabled and running in the background to be able to schedule taks: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Make sure the service is enabled and running in the background to be able to schedule tasks: 
```

    ```
    systemctl enable cron
    ```

    The following output displays: 
    ```
    Synchronizing state of cron.service with SysV service script with /lib/systemd/systemd-sysv-install.
    Executing: /lib/systemd/systemd-sysv-install enable cron
    ```

##  Understanding Cron

> Cronjobs are managed from a cronfile, specific for each user of the system. This allows each user to schedule their own cronjobs. These cronfiles are located in the directory `/var/spool/cron/crontabs/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cronjobs are managed from a cronfile, specific for each user of the system. This allows each user to schedule their own cronjobs. These cronfiles are located in the `/var/spool/cron/crontabs/` directory.
```

> Cronjobs are managed from a cronfile, specific for each user of the system. This allows each user to schedule its own cronjobs. These cronfiles are located in the directory `/var/spool/cron/crontabs/`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cronjobs are managed from a cronfile, specific for each user of the system. This allows each user to schedule their own cronjobs. These cronfiles are located in the directory `/var/spool/cron/crontabs/`.
```

Cron allows you to run almost any command you would normally run from the command line. 

Each crontab uses the following structure:

| MINUTE (0 - 59) 	| HOUR (0 - 23, 0 = MIDNIGHT) 	| DAY OF THE MONTH (1 - 31) 	| MONTH (1 - 12) 	| DAY OF THE WEEK (0 - 6, 0 = SUNDAY) 	| COMMAND OR DIRECTORY PATH AND SCRIPT NAME 	|
|-----------------	|-----------------------------	|---------------------------	|----------------	|-------------------------------------	|-------------------------------------------	|
| *                	| *                            	| *             	            | *               	| *                                   	| e.g. /var/www/websites/backup.sh          	|

<Message type="tip">

You can also use the following notation for:
* Months: `JAN-DEC`
* Day of the week: `SUN-SAT`

</Message>

> Following an example that runs a backup every night at 4:30: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is an example that runs a backup every night at 4:30: 
```

```
30 04 * * * /var/www/websites/backup.sh
```

### Special strings

> Cron provides a range special strings, which can be used in place of the five time-and-date fields:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cron provides a range of special strings, which can be used in place of the five time-and-date fields:
```

| `@reboot`   	| Run once, at startup.                                                                                            	|
| `@yearly`   	| Run once a year, `0 0 1 1 *`.                                                                                    	|
| `@annually` 	| (same as `@yearly`)                                                                                              	|
| `@monthly`  	| Run once a month, `0 0 1 * *`.                                                                                   	|
| `@weekly`   	| Run once a week, `0 0 * * 0`.                                                                                    	|
| `@daily`    	| Run once a day, `0 0 * * *`.                                                                                     	|
| `@midnight` 	| (same as `@daily`)                                                                                               	|
| `@hourly`   	| Run once an hour, `0 * * * *`.                                                                                   	|

## Managing crontabs

> Once you have decided when you want to run your cronjobs, privde the info in your `crontab` file so that the daemon can read it. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have decided when you want to run your cronjobs, provide the info in your `crontab` file so that the daemon can read it. 
```

<Message type="important">

The `crontab` file is a regular text file, however it is not recommended to edit it directly. Use the `crontab` command instead, which will also check your edits for syntax errors. 

</Message>

1. Open the `crontab` file: 
    ```
    crontab -e 
    ```

    If you are running the command for the first time, and no crontab exists for your user, a new one will be created. The following prompt displays:

    ```
    Select an editor.  To change later, run 'select-editor'.
    1. /bin/nano        <---- easiest
    2. /usr/bin/vim.basic
    3. /usr/bin/vim.tiny
    4. /bin/ed

    Choose 1-4 [1]:
    ```

>     Enter the number corresponding to editor of your choice, alternatively just press `Enter` to use the default choice, `nano` - which is the easiest to use option. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Enter the number corresponding to the editor of your choice, or alternatively press `Enter` to use the default choice, `nano` - which is the most user-friendly option. 
```

2. Edit your crontab by adding your tasks at the end of the file. 

    <Message type ="note"> 

>     It contains by default some commented-out information how to edit the crontab file. Go to the end of the file to add your tasks. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    By default, the file contains some commented-out information on how to edit the crontab file. Go to the end of the file to add your tasks. 
```

    </Message>

    ```
    # Edit this file to introduce tasks to be run by cron.
    #
    # Each task to run has to be defined through a single line
    # indicating with different fields when the task will be run
    # and what command to run for the task
    #
    # To define the time you can provide concrete values for
    # minute (m), hour (h), day of month (dom), month (mon),
    # and day of week (dow) or use '*' in these fields (for 'any').
    #
    # Notice that tasks will be started based on the cron's system
    # daemon's notion of time and timezones.
    #
    # Output of the crontab jobs (including errors) is sent through
    # email to the user the crontab file belongs to (unless redirected).
    #
    # For example, you can run a backup of all your user accounts
    # at 5 a.m every week with:
    # 0 5 * * 1 tar -zcf /var/backups/home.tgz /home/
    #
    # For more information see the manual pages of crontab(5) and cron(8)
    #
    # m h  dom mon dow   command
    ```

    Once done, press `CTRL` and `O` to save your modifications, then  `CTRL` and `X` to quit the text editor. 

<Message type="tip">

> `crontab` will rembmer your choice of editor. When you run `crontab -e` in the future, it will open the file automatically in the same text editor. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`crontab` will remember your choice of editor. When you run `crontab -e` in the future, it will open the file automatically in the same text editor. 
```
